Integrate new and past years of censuspep (#4665)
catalyst-cooperative/pudl: docs/dev/existing_data_updates.rst

    $ make pytest-integration-full

We expect ``test/integration/dbt_test.py::test_dbt`` to fail at this point, but
everything else should pass. Fix any remaining failures and we'll fix dbt in the next
step.

**9.2)** When the non-dbt integration tests are passing against all years of data,
sanity check the data in the database and the derived outputs by running

.. code-block:: console

    $ dbt_helper validate

There are two kinds of failures that are common at this stage, summarized below. If
other tests have failed, see
:doc:`the validation reference guide </dev/data_validation_reference>` for help
fixing them.

**9.3)** ``source_expect_quantile_constraints_*``: You may need to update the expected
distribution of fuel prices if they were particularly high or low in the new year of
data. Other values like expected heat content per unit of fuel should be relatively
stable. If the required adjustments are large, or there are other types of
validations failing, they should be investigated.

> **9.4)** ``source_check_row_counts_per_partition_*``: **Always fix rowcounts last.**

Reviewer: Ah, I see your logic for the order - perhaps investigating and fixing quantile constraints will wind up changing the row counts, e.g..

Author: also, if it takes you a while to fix quantile constraints, and new rowcounts have been merged to main in the meantime, you'll have to re-run them when you update your branch before merging

> Run the ``build-deploy-pudl`` GHA against your branch to generate a fresh rowcounts

Author: It's my understanding that we're still in "local rowcounts don't always match nightly rowcounts and we don't know why" land -- which means folks should always run the GHA to generate the rowcounts file. 

My intent here is for the GHA to get run only if there are rowcounts failures in the validation test results -- if the new data didn't change the output, there's no need. I can make that clearer.

> Run the ``build-deploy-pudl`` GHA against your branch to generate a fresh rowcounts

Author: well okay i made a different thing clearer

file. When the deployment report appears in Slack, it will read as failed, but the

> build will have left behind a perfect rowcounts file. Copy it to your branch using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
build will have left behind a file containing updated rowcounts for the new data. Copy it to your branch using
```

:doc:`the nightly build instructions </dev/nightly_data_builds>`, and inspect the
changes using ``git diff``. Pay attention to how far off of previous expectations the

> new rowcounts are. E.g. if there are already 20 years of data, and you're integrating

Reviewer: Most of our annual datasets are partitioned by year, so this probably isn't the best example. Maybe, "if you're processing a revision to a year of data, you should expect to see the vast majority of row changes occur to that year's partition" or something like that?

:doc:`the validation reference guide </dev/data_validation_reference>` for help
fixing them.

**9.2.1)** ``source_expect_quantile_constraints_*``: You may need to update the expected
distribution of fuel prices if they were particularly high or low in the new year of
data. Other values like expected heat content per unit of fuel should be relatively
stable. If the required adjustments are large, they should be investigated.

**9.2.2)** ``source_check_row_counts_per_partition_*``: **Always fix rowcounts
last.** That way, if fixes to other problems result in changes to the count, or new
counts have been added to main since your last update, you won't have to throw away
work. For most tables, a local run of the full ETL will permit you to use
``dbt_helper`` to update the rowcounts file (see :ref:`rowcount-failures`), but some

> EIA tables can only be repeatably counted in GHA (see issue :issue:`4574`). If your

Reviewer: We should probably add a task in this issue to remove this part of the docs once we fix this. But great, crystal clear now!
